# FreeVarioGauge

IMPORTANT - PTT and mute function

If you want to use the FreeVario's mute function, you need to have at least the FreeVario image from 20295 installed on your OpenVario. In addition, at least firmware V.1.1.1 must be installed on the sound board as well as on the display board. If you are using the sound board with the 3-pin connector on the back, but without the diode D1, a small change has to be made here. Please write me about this by email (dirk@freevario.de).

The FreeVario is an open source e-variometer that works together with the XCSoar software. It shows the mean climb (30s), 
the height above sea level (MSL) or the height above ground (AGL), the ground speed (GS) or tue airspeed (TAS), the MC, 
QNH or bug value. MC, QNH, or bug value can be set via the menu and the rotary encoder, and are then passed on 
to XCSoar. In addition, a colored bar, which represents the climb value that can be grasped quickly, shows the current climb. 
The bar shows climbing green and falling red. The acoustic display of the climbing value is as known by other e-Varios and 
no longer has to be generated by the OpenVario. The OpenVario can therefore issue airspace warnings again. The volume can be 
adjusted using the lower rotary knob. The toggle switch can be used to switch between speed to fly and vario. In the middle 
position, XCSoar or a switch attached to the flaps automatically decides whether spped to fly or vario should be active.

On the back are an RJ45 and a small 2-pin socket. The e-Vario is connected to the OpenVario via the RJ45 socket. The small 
2-pin socket can be connected to a switch on the flaps.

The e-Vario fits into a 57mm standard cutout. The housing has the dimensions: 65x65x90 (LxWxD) and is printed with a 3D 
printer made of PLA or PETG
